black holes are the largest collections
of pure violent energy in the universe
if you come too close they'll devour you
and add your energy to their collection
and so the energy is lost to us forever
or is it it turns out there's a Universe
cheat code a way of powering
civilizations until the very death of
everything or of constructing the
largest bomb in the universe but how
didn't we learn that all energy is
trapped forever in black holes even
light this is true everything you think
you know about the weirdest thing in the
universe is about to get weirder for one
simple reason black holes are spinning
foreign
spin
when ready ready massive stars die their
cause collapse under their own gravity
into black holes this means something
very big becomes very very tiny like the
tiniest anything can be in this universe
but stars are rotating and a fundamental
property of our universe is that things
that are spinning don't want to stop
spinning we call this angular momentum
and this angular momentum can't go away
a big thing that spins and becomes
smaller spins faster so as the core of a
star collapses its momentum makes it
spin faster and faster and faster until
it collapses into a black hole and the
black hole keeps on spinning
inconceivably fast some of them spend
millions of times a second
why spinning black holes are special
just like non-spinning black holes
spinning black holes have an event
horizon and a singularity at their core
where all of their mass is concentrated
The Singularity is usually described as
a single infinitely small point with no
surface area but points can't rotate so
a rotating Singularity can't be a point
instead it's a regularity a ringularity
is a ring with a thickness of zero and
no surface spinning extremely fast
containing all the mass of the black
hole the black hole is spinning so fast
that it morphs space and time itself it
literally drags space with it such as
its power this creates a new and super
weird region of space-time the
ergosphere which envelops the black hole
if space and time are completely broken
inside the Event Horizon then they're
only half broken inside the ergosphere
inside the ergosphere nothing makes
sense it's possible to enter it and then
leave it again but it's probably not a
great experience
you can imagine it like this falling
into a static black hole is like sliding
down a hole being inside the ergosphere
of a spinning black hole is like
spiraling down a deadly drain
the black hole transfers its own kinetic
energy in the form of rotation to
everything that enters the ergosphere
the regularity makes you dance whether
you want to or not you need to move
faster than the speed of light just to
stand still here which is impossible
but here's our cheat code we can steal
this energy and there's a lot of energy
to steal
how to steal energy from a monster
take the supermassive black hole at the
center of the Milky Way we could steal
as much energy from it as every single
star in the Milky Way emits in a billion
years combined the easiest way to steal
this energy is oddly enough to drop
something into the black hole we've seen
that the regularity forces energy on us
when we enter the ergosphere which is a
lot like being in a Whirlpool with
space-time rushing around and around
if you're clever you can use the water
to your advantage and swim faster than
before
in practice this means sending a rocket
into the ergosphere and making a trade
with a black hole we give it some mass
energy and it gives us some of its
rotational energy but it's not a fair
trade we get the better deal
normally if you fire a rocket you
exchange chemical energy for kinetic
energy
this is like pushing yourself forward in
a swimming pool
but if you fire a rocket inside the
ergosphere it's like pushing yourself
forward in a wave pool
the rotational energy of the Waves gives
you a much stronger boost than you could
get just by pushing yourself
the Boost from the rotation of the black
hole is so big that you leave the
ergosphere with much more energy than
you entered it
the black hole gives a tiny amount of
its rotational energy to you and slows
down a little
obviously this requires a lot of food
fortunately black holes aren't picky
eaters an advanced future civilization
would probably Harvest asteroids to drop
them into the black hole when they
needed an energy boost
but there's an even better way to get
energy from a black hole and oddly
enough it builds the biggest bomb any
living thing could ever hope to build
the black hole bomb
we only need two things to build a black
hole bomb afar spinning their coal and a
big mirror
The Mirror Has to completely envelop the
black hole which is similar to a Dyson
Sphere a mega structure that harvests
the energy of an entire star Although
our mirror would be easier to build
mirrors are simpler and black holes are
much much more compact than Stars
if we made the mirror 10 centimeters
thick the metal of a big asteroid would
probably be enough material for a black
hole with the mass of our sun
once our mirror is in place we only need
to open a window and shoot
electromagnetic waves of the black hole
you can imagine what happens next by
imagining tossing a ball at a wall and
it coming back faster than a bullet the
waves hit the black hole at light speed
a small proportion of the Waves Falls
past the Event Horizon to disappear
forever
but a much larger amount sloshes through
the ergosphere where the black hole
forces some of its rotational energy on
them and amplifies them they now begin
super radiant scattering which are fancy
science words meaning bouncing around
between mirror and black hole and
getting stronger every time they go
around they are getting exponentially
stronger
by opening some windows in the mirror we
can extract the energy from the waves as
fast as they grow which we could use in
theory to create what would be for all
practical purposes an endless source of
energy for trillions of years or we
could blow it up if the waves are not
released they will continue to get
stronger and stronger and take more and
more energy from the black hole until
the mirror shatters a supermassive black
hole would release as much energy as a
supernova making the bomb the largest
explosion any living being could ever
create
the last home in a dying universe
the beauty of the black hole bomb the
Penrose process and the super radiant
scattering is that they are not science
fiction in the Far Far Future this might
be the only way to survive in our dying
Universe after all the red dwarfs have
cooled down and all the white dwarfs
transformed into black dwarfs the
universe will turn dark forever rotating
black holes might be the only sources of
energy in the entire universe that life
could Harvest
if so the last living being in existence
might One Day end its life around a
black hole which is equally chilling and
uplifting it turns out that even without
any light
there are places we can go
black holes are as interesting as they
are mysterious but there's actually a
surprising amount we do know
using maths we can calculate things and
come up with theories about how we die
if we fall into them
if you're the sort of person who gets
excited about maths and calculating
these things for yourself our friends
are brilliant have put together a
fantastic black hole quiz to help you
get your head around them
brilliant is a problem-solving website
that teaches you to think like a
scientist by guiding you through the
problems they take Concepts like these
break them up into bite-sized pieces
present clear thinking in each part and
then build back up to an interesting
conclusion
if you visit brilliant.org nutshell or
click the link in the description you
can sign up for free and learn all kinds
of cool stuff
and as a bonus for cutzact viewers the
first 688 people will also get 20 off
their annual membership
if you want to truly learn about black
holes and support kotzkazakhs this is
one of the best ways to do it
[Music]